New rewards docs & Staking guides (#237)
onflow/flow: docs/content/staking/rewards.mdx

description: How the Flow protocol pays rewards to stakers
---

## Rewards

Rewards are paid out at the end of each [epoch](/staking/#epochs) to all the users that have tokens staked.
Rewards are considered to be unlocked and liquid, so the user can withdraw their rewards
at any time.

More information about the rewards calculation and schedule will be provided in the near future.

If you staked using a 3rd party staking provider such as Kraken, Blocto or Finoa, please read [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/) for more information about how
to claim and use your rewards via your chosen provider.

> ## Rewards Calculation

Reviewer: Have you gotten confirmation from Layne or Roham that this info is allowed to be shared?

Rewards are considered to be unlocked and liquid, so the user can withdraw their rewards
at any time.

If you staked using a 3rd party staking provider such as Kraken, Blocto or Finoa, please read [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/) for more information about how
to claim and use your rewards via your chosen provider.

## Rewards Distribution

The rewards distribution schedule has been designed to ensure that enough liquid FLOW
is available in the ecosystem to a wide variety of holders after the first few reward payments.
Using this model, any user will be able to easily aquire FLOW from many different places
in order to participate in the network.

The numbers in this table represent the total tokens that are paid as rewards each epoch.
They are not meant to indicate any expectations for an individual staker's rewards.
Different variables go into calculating what an individual staker receives as rewards.

|                          | Week 1         | Weeks 2-5  | Weeks 6 - 72 | Weeks 73+ |
| ------------------------ | -------------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------- |

> | Total Rewards % (Annual) | 5%             | 20%        | 5%           | 3%        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Total Rewards % (Annual) | 5%             | 20%        | 5%           | TBD      |
```

> | Total Rewards Amount     | 1,173,391 FLOW | ~4.4M FLOW | ~1.2M FLOW   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Total Rewards Amount     | 1,173,391 FLOW | ~4.4M FLOW | ~1.2M FLOW   | TBD
```

## Using Rewards

The process for collecting and using reward payouts will be different depending on how your tokens were staked.
If you staked tokens using a custody provider, see [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/) for
details about how to claim your rewards.

> Rewards will continue to accumulate in your account as long as you a re staked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewards will continue to accumulate in your account as long as you are staked and operate your node properly.
```

You're not required to do anything with your rewards, but you can claim them and use them in a few ways.

#### Once you've claimed your rewards you can:

- Re-stake to earn compounding rewards! Most custody providers will automatically re-stake your rewards. (Some do not).
  For details about re-staking related to your chosen custody provider see [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/).
  **Note:** If you would like to stake a different node than you're currently staking, you may need to contact you custody provider directly.

- Deposit your rewards in another Flow account. Or, divide your rewards between multiple accounts. This will
  require coordination with the Flow team and the custody provider, as a custom Cadence trasnaction will need to be written that supports
  transferring tokens from acocunts created by your provider.

> - TODO: Example of "General transaction for individuals to withdraw rewards and distribute to multiple accounts"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes can use the **Withdraw Rewarded FLOW** ([TH.14](/protocol/core-contracts/locked-tokens/#token-holder)) transaction to withdraw their rewards back to their locked account.
Delegators can use the **Withdraw Rewarded FLOW** ([TH.24](/protocol/core-contracts/locked-tokens/#token-holder)) transaction to withdraw their rewards back to their locked account.

Then, any user can use the **Withdraw Unlocked FLOW** ([TH.01](/protocol/core-contracts/locked-tokens/#token-holder)) transaction to withdraw their rewards and unlocked FLOW from the locked account to the unlocked account.
```

> - Spend your FLOW in DApps on Flow! Take your newly liquid FLOW tokens to interact with DApps deployed on Flow Mainnet!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send your tokens to other Flow users with the **Transfer FLOW** ([FT.01](/protocol/core-contracts/flow-token/#transactions)) transaction.
- Spend your FLOW in DApps on Flow! Take your newly liquid FLOW tokens to interact with DApps deployed on Flow Mainnet!
```

description: How the Flow protocol pays rewards to stakers
---

## Rewards

> Rewards are paid out at the end of each [epoch](/staking/#epochs) to all the users that have tokens staked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rewards are paid out at the end of each [epoch](/staking/#epochs) (approximately weekly) to all the users that have tokens staked.
```

Rewards are considered to be unlocked and liquid, so the user can withdraw their rewards
at any time.

If you staked using a 3rd party staking provider such as Kraken, Blocto or Finoa, please read [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/) for more information about how
to claim and use your rewards via your chosen provider.

## Rewards Distribution

> The rewards distribution schedule has been designed to ensure that enough liquid FLOW

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rewards distribution schedule has been designed to ensure there is enough liquid supply of FLOW
```

> is available in the ecosystem to a wide variety of holders after the first few reward payments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
available in the ecosystem to empower a wide variety of use cases.
```

> Using this model, any user will be able to easily aquire FLOW from many different places

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> in order to participate in the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The numbers in this table represent the total tokens that are paid as rewards each epoch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The numbers in this table represent the total amount of tokens that are paid as staking rewards at each epoch to the entire Flow ecosystem participants.
```

Different variables go into calculating what an individual staker receives as rewards.

|                          | Week 1         | Weeks 2-5  | Weeks 6 - 72 | Weeks 73+ |
| ------------------------ | -------------- | ---------- | ------------ | --------- |
| Total Rewards % (Annual) | 5%             | 20%        | 5%           | TBD      |
| Total Rewards Amount     | 1,173,391 FLOW | ~4.4M FLOW | ~1.2M FLOW   | TBD

## Using Rewards

The process for collecting and using reward payouts will be different depending on how your tokens were staked.
If you staked tokens using a custody provider, see [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/) for
details about how to claim your rewards.

Rewards will continue to accumulate in your account as long as you are staked and operate your node properly.
You're not required to do anything with your rewards, but you can claim them and use them in a few ways.

#### Once you've claimed your rewards you can:

- Re-stake to earn compounding rewards! Most custody providers will automatically re-stake your rewards. (Some do not).
  For details about re-staking related to your chosen custody provider see [our guides](/staking/custody-providers/).

>   **Note:** If you would like to stake a different node than you're currently staking, you may need to contact you custody provider directly.

Reviewer 2: If you would like to stake a different node than the one you're currently staking, you may need to contact your custody provider directly
